**Constitution of “TCMA”**

1.  **Name**

The official name of this recognized campus group is “Traditional Chinese
Martial Arts Club”

The acronym or abbreviation of this group is: TCMA

2.  **Purpose and Objectives**

The purpose, objectives, mission and/or mandate of organization is outlined
here:

Our Main Goals are:

1. Spreading Traditional Chinese Martial Arts Culture.

2. Creating an environment for KongFu training.

3. Making friends with similar interests.

4. Providing students a chance to teach each other and have fun.

We will reach our goals by:

1. Preparing Martial Arts shows each semester.

2. Scheduling weekly training sessions.

3. Organizing activities and events with other UofT clubs several times a year.

Our direction of the group in the future is to maintain the club basing on
interest and entrainment.

*\*Note: The purpose for your club must include the overall mission, vision,
goals, and the direction of your group. In addition to this, please elaborate
further on how you are going to achieve the above. Will it be through seminars,
workshops, outreach, advocacy, etc. It’s important to talk about the how, the
medium, and the “product” of your group. (Delete this paragraph when submitting
the final copy).*

3.  **Membership**

Membership to the group is open to all the University of Toronto members
(students, staff, faculty and alumni).

U of T members are permitted to run, nominate, and vote in elections and
constitutional amendments. The group is open to non-U of T members. However,
these members do not hold the aforementioned rights. Members must register with
a designated executive by submitting their full name and a valid email address.

The membership fee will be \$15 per year.

Any member of the club may apply for a refund within one (1) month of becoming a
member. No refunds are permitted 30 days after the election periods.

For recognition by the University of Toronto Students’ Union (UTSU), the group
must maintain a minimum of 30 members, a total of 51% of membership are UTSU
members. The group must also maintain recognition from the Office of Student
Life. These requirements are subject to change and should be checked with UTSU
annually to ensure qualifications are met.

4.  **Executive List and Duties**

The executive committee shall be comprised of four (4) elected officers. These
include a [President, Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer].

*The President shall:*

-   Oversee the operations, management and success of the group

-   Be the spokesperson for the group

-   Hold signing officer authority along with the Treasurer for financial
    purposes

-   Preside over board meetings as well as general meetings

-   Ensure transition of office to the future Executives

Additional responsibilities may include:

N/A

*The Vice-President shall:*

-   Assume duties of the President in his/her absence

-   Oversee the various committees

-   Ensure that all the activities of the club meet regulations and policies of
    the

-   Coordinate organizational recruitment efforts

Additional responsibilities may include:

N/A

*The Secretary shall:*

-   Make a list of all registered members

-   Maintain the web sites and member contact list

-   Record notes and motions for meetings

-   Notify all members of meetings

-   Handle official correspondence of the organization

Additional responsibilities may include:

N/A

*The Treasurer shall:*

-   Record all financial transactions of the group

-   Hold signing officer authority along with the President for financial
    purposes

-   Maintain a budget of income and expenses along with receipts

-   Advise members on financial position of the group

-   Prepare an annual budget for the group as well as budgets for specific
    events

Additional responsibilities may include:

N/

The group may appoint Directors or Coordinators for various committees such as
social committee, publicity committee, and so on; however, such positions do not
hold executive decision making authority.

5. **Termination of Executives or General Members:**

Any member of the club who commits an act negatively affecting the interests of
the club and its members, including non-disclosure of a significant or
continuing conflict of interest, may be given notice of removal.

The member up for removal shall have the right to defend his/her actions.

A two-thirds majority vote of the current members present in favor of removal is
required. The member must have the right to an appeal before the general
membership, and the majority vote of the general membership will have the final
say on the matter.

The member will be removed from the club’s membership and will lose any
privileges associated with being a member of the club.

Executive members are subject to the same termination or impeachment process
and, as determined by the vote, may lose their executive position along with
their membership to the group.

6.  **Elections**

The executive committee shall strike the Elections Committee and appoint one (1)
Chief Returning Officer (CRO) and two (2) Scrutinizers from the general members
on the committee to conduct and hold elections in March. All members of the
Elections Committee shall be non-biased in the results of the election and shall
be required to disclose any and all conflicts of interest in the election.

The CRO Returning Officer shall accept nominations only from group members that
are also registered U of T members (staff, faculty, students and alumni) for
candidacy of executive positions from the general membership before the
beginning of March. Candidates have to be members in good standing and be part
of the group for at least one month prior to the nomination period.

The CRO shall select three (3) election dates before March 30th for the voting
period. These dates will be announced in a minimum of two (2) weeks prior to
elections dates and must fall on weekdays.

The CRO and Scrutinizers shall provide each U of T member with a paper ballot on
the voting dates and ask the member to place their ballot in an enclosed box.

In preparation for a tie, the CRO shall select an executive from amongst the
executive committee, to cast their ballot and seal it in an envelope. In the
event of a tie for an executive position, one of the two Scrutinizers shall
break the seal and count the ballot in order to break the tie.

After the election is over, the CRO and Scrutinizers shall count the ballots.
The candidate with the most votes shall be elected to the position. The CRO and
Scrutinizers shall submit a report of the results of the elections to the
Executive Committee and general members.

Registered U of T members may not vote by proxy. Non-U of T members may not
nominate or vote in elections.

Only U of T members who have paid any applicable membership fees and have been a
member in good standing for 30 days prior to election dates are eligible for
voting.

Term of executive positions shall be from May 1st to April 30th.

7.  **Finances**

The Treasurer shall keep records of all income and expenses. The Treasurer shall
present the group’s financial health at the annual general meetings. The
Executive Committee will vote on expenditures of over \$100.00 by majority vote
at an executive meeting.

The group’s executive or members may not engage in activities that are
essentially commercial in nature. This is not intended to preclude the
collection of membership fees to cover the expenses of the group, or of charges
for specific activities, programs or events, or to prohibit groups from engaging
in legitimate fundraising. However, the group will not have as a major activity
a function that makes it an on-campus part of a commercial organization, will
not provide services and goods at a profit when that profit is used for purposes
other than those of the organization, and will not pay salaries to some or all
of its officers.

8.  **Meetings**

a) Annual General Meetings (AGMs):

The group shall hold general meetings at least twice per year, i.e. once per
academic term.

The Executive Committee will announce these dates two (2) weeks prior to holding
the meetings. These meetings are intended to go over the group’s annual activity
plan, financial health and propose or vote on constitutional amendments, if any.
Motions will require 2/3 majority of registered members in attendance for a vote
to be cast. The motion with the most votes will be passed.

b) Executive Meetings:

The executive committee shall meet on a monthly basis where date and times are
to be set by an executive. The quorum of executive meetings shall be 50%+1 of
executives.

9.  **Amendments**

Any registered U of T members may propose and vote on amendments to this
constitution. The Executive Committee will administer the process of having
amendments discussed at general meetings.

Constitutional amendments shall require a 2/3 majority to be passed at Annual
General Meetings by registered U of T members in attendance.

The Executive Committee shall formally adopt the new constitution and submit the
revised constitution to the respective University offices (i.e. The Office of
Student Life, The University of Toronto Students’ , etc) within two (2) weeks of
its approval by general members.
